README.md, before:

# libtrmc2 – Library for controlling the TRMC2 temperature regulator

This library is intended for controlling the [TRMC2 temperature
regulator][TRMC2] from Linux. It can work either on a 32 or 64-bit PC
having a built-in serial port, or on a [Raspberry Pi][] running
[Raspberry Pi OS][].

The library was written by Jean-Christian Anglès d’Auriac, initially for
Windows. Edgar Bonet contributed the Linux port (the file TrmcLin.c),
save for the code specific to the Raspberry Pi.

## Building and installing libtrmc2

You first have to make sure you have a build toolchain installed. The
simplest way is by issuing the command:

    sudo apt install build-essential

On the Raspberry Pi, you will also need the latest version of the
[wiringPi][] library. Beware that Raspbian provides wiringPi 2.50, which
is an outdated version that will not work on the Raspberry Pi&nbsp;4. If
you have that version installed, you first have to remove it:

    version=$(dpkg-query -Wf '${Version}' wiringpi)
    if [ "$version" = "2.50" ]; then sudo apt -y purge wiringpi; fi

Then, install wiringPi from the author's package:

    curl -O https://project-downloads.drogon.net/wiringpi-latest.deb
    sudo dpkg -i wiringpi-latest.deb

The provided Makefile defaults to installing the shared library in
/usr/local/lib and the header file in /usr/local/include. If you prefer
to install in a different location, you should edit the Makefile and set
the variables `INSTALLDIR`, `LIBDIR` and/or `INCLUDEDIR` accordingly.
Then:

    make
    sudo make install

This last command installs two files and two symbolic links:

    $(INCLUDEDIR)/Trmc.h
    $(LIBDIR)/libtrmc2.so -> libtrmc2.so.1
    $(LIBDIR)/libtrmc2.so.1 -> libtrmc2.so.1.1
    $(LIBDIR)/libtrmc2.so.1.1

## Building your own programs based on libtrmc2

In the source file, put:

    #include <Trmc.h>

Compile with:

    -I$(INCLUDEDIR)

and link with:

    -L$(LIBDIR) -Wl,-rpath,$(LIBDIR) -ltrmc2

where `$(INCLUDEDIR)` and `$(LIBDIR)` are the directories holding Trmc.h
and libtrmc2.so respectively. Then make the program suid root, or start
it with sudo.

## Why run as root?

A program wishing to communicate with the TRMC2 needs low-level access
to the hardware:

* On a PC, the TRMC2 is plugged into a serial port. However, it does not
  use the RS-232 protocol, and therefore we cannot rely on the
  `/dev/ttyS*` devices. Instead, the DTR, RTS and CTS control lines of
  the port are used to bit-bang a custom synchronous serial protocol.
  libtrmc2 uses in/out instructions to access the raw I/O ports and
  needs root privileges to do so.

* On the Raspberry Pi, libtrmc2 uses the wiringPi library to access the
  GPIO pins. By default, wiringPi will attempt an `mmap()` on /dev/mem
  in order to gain access to the GPIO ports, which also requires root
  privileges.

* libtrmc2 also uses this privileges to get real-time scheduling
  priority, which helps get good communication timings. This feature can
  be disabled by compiling the library with the option
  `-DNORMAL_SCHEDULE`.

[TRMC2]: http://neel-2007-2019.neel.cnrs.fr/spip.php?article862
[Raspberry Pi]: https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/
[Raspberry Pi OS]: https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspberry-pi-os/
[wiringPi]: http://wiringpi.com/

Commit message:

Migrate from wiringPi to libgpiod
WiringPi has been deprecated by its author with this message:

    Please look for alternatives for wiringPi

On the Raspberry Pi, we now rely on libgpiod. This library, hosted on
kernel.org, is being developed alongside the new GPIO "character device"
kernel interface which, since Linux 4.8, is the preferred method for
interacting with GPIO pins. The library seems thus quite future-proof.

Also bump libtrmc2 version to 2.0.

README.md, after:

# libtrmc2 – Library for controlling the TRMC2 temperature regulator

This library is intended for controlling the [TRMC2 temperature
regulator][TRMC2] from Linux. It can work either on a 32 or 64-bit PC
having a built-in serial port, or on a [Raspberry Pi][] running
[Raspberry Pi OS][].

The library was written by Jean-Christian Anglès d’Auriac, initially for
Windows. Edgar Bonet contributed the Linux port (the file TrmcLin.c).

## Building and installing libtrmc2

You first have to make sure you have a build toolchain installed. The
simplest way is by issuing the command:

    sudo apt install build-essential

On the Raspberry Pi, you will also need the libgpiod library:

    sudo apt install libgpiod-dev

The provided Makefile defaults to installing the shared library in
/usr/local/lib and the header file in /usr/local/include. If you prefer
to install in a different location, you should edit the Makefile and set
the variables `INSTALLDIR`, `LIBDIR` and/or `INCLUDEDIR` accordingly.
Then:

    make
    sudo make install

This last command installs two files and two symbolic links:

    $(INCLUDEDIR)/Trmc.h
    $(LIBDIR)/libtrmc2.so -> libtrmc2.so.1
    $(LIBDIR)/libtrmc2.so.1 -> libtrmc2.so.1.1
    $(LIBDIR)/libtrmc2.so.1.1

## Building your own programs based on libtrmc2

In the source file, put:

    #include <Trmc.h>

Compile with:

    -I$(INCLUDEDIR)

and link with:

    -L$(LIBDIR) -Wl,-rpath,$(LIBDIR) -ltrmc2

where `$(INCLUDEDIR)` and `$(LIBDIR)` are the directories holding Trmc.h
and libtrmc2.so respectively. Then make the program suid root, or start
it with sudo.

## Why run as root?

A program wishing to communicate with the TRMC2 needs low-level access
to the hardware:

* On a PC, the TRMC2 is plugged into a serial port. However, it does not
  use the RS-232 protocol, and therefore we cannot rely on the
  `/dev/ttyS*` devices. Instead, the DTR, RTS and CTS control lines of
  the port are used to bit-bang a custom synchronous serial protocol.
  libtrmc2 uses in/out instructions to access the raw I/O ports and
  needs root privileges to do so.

* On the Raspberry Pi, libtrmc2 uses libgpiod to access the GPIO pins,
  and this also requires root privileges.

* libtrmc2 also uses this privileges to get real-time scheduling
  priority, which helps get good communication timings. This feature can
  be disabled by compiling the library with the option
  `-DNORMAL_SCHEDULE`.

[TRMC2]: http://neel-2007-2019.neel.cnrs.fr/spip.php?article862
[Raspberry Pi]: https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/
[Raspberry Pi OS]: https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspberry-pi-os/
